README_EN.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🪶 PaperWhisperer

**"Listen to what papers are whispering to you."**

_Your personal AI companion for understanding research papers_

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue.svg)](https://www.docker.com/)

**English** | [中文](./README.md)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

|         Feature         | Description                                                                 |
| :---------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  📄 **Smart Parsing**   | Extracts title, abstract, sections, references, and figures automatically  |
| 🧠 **AI Understanding** | Summarizes methods, contributions, and key insights in human-readable form |
|  💬 **Chat with Paper** | Ask natural questions and get contextual answers                            |
|   🌐 **Multi-Source**   | Support for PDF / arXiv / DOI Links                                         |
|   🗣️ **Multilingual**   | English / 中文 / Academic / Casual explanations                             |
|   🪞 **Memory-Aware**   | Keeps context so you can explore ideas naturally                            |

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) & [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

### One-Click Launch

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/cjrzs/PaperWhisperer.git

# 2. Navigate to project directory
cd PaperWhisperer

# 3. Start the service
docker-compose up -d
```

🎉 Done! Visit `http://localhost` to get started

---

## 💡 Usage Examples

After uploading a paper, you can ask:

> 🤔 What problem does this paper solve?
>
> 🔍 How does their attention mechanism differ from RNNs?
>
> 📊 What are the main experimental results?

---

## 💭 Vision

> **PaperWhisperer** — Let papers whisper their stories to you.

---

## 📜 License

MIT License © 2025

---

<div align="center">

Made with ❤️ for researchers everywhere

</div>

Commit message:

feat: 修改前端默认端口为8000，方便给整体服务配置nginx。doc:修改readme，增加demo地址指引。

README_EN.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🪶 PaperWhisperer

**"Listen to what papers are whispering to you."**

_Your personal AI companion for understanding research papers_

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue.svg)](https://www.docker.com/)

**English** | [中文](./README.md)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

|         Feature         | Description                                                                 |
| :---------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  📄 **Smart Parsing**   | Extracts title, abstract, sections, references, and figures automatically  |
| 🧠 **AI Understanding** | Summarizes methods, contributions, and key insights in human-readable form |
|  💬 **Chat with Paper** | Ask natural questions and get contextual answers                            |
|   🌐 **Multi-Source**   | Support for PDF / arXiv / DOI Links                                         |
|   🗣️ **Multilingual**   | English / 中文 / Academic / Casual explanations                             |
|   🪞 **Memory-Aware**   | Keeps context so you can explore ideas naturally                            |

---

## Demo Trial
https://paper.whisperer.top/

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) & [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

### One-Click Launch

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/cjrzs/PaperWhisperer.git

# 2. Navigate to project directory
cd PaperWhisperer

# 3. Create a .env file and set up your environment following the guidelines provided in env.example.txt

# 4. Start the service
docker-compose up -d
```

---

## 💡 Usage Examples

After uploading a paper, you can ask:

> 🤔 What problem does this paper solve?
>
> 🔍 How does their attention mechanism differ from RNNs?
>
> 📊 What are the main experimental results?

---

## 💭 Vision

> **PaperWhisperer** — Let papers whisper their stories to you.

---

## 📜 License

MIT License © 2025

---

<div align="center">

Made with ❤️ for researchers everywhere

</div>
